{ "title": "JSHint CLI flags", "url": "/docs/cli", "template": "docs" }

# CLI flags

The JSHint CLI program accepts the following flags:

#### `--reporter`

Allows you to modify JSHint's output by replacing its default output function
with your own implementation.

    $ jshint --reporter=myreporter.js myfile.js

This flag also supports two pre-defined reporters: *jslint*, to make output
compatible with JSLint, and *checkstyle*, to make output compatible with
CheckStyle XML.

    $ jshint --reporter=checkstyle myfile.js
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <checkstyle version="4.3">
      <file name="myfile.js">
        <error line="10" column="39" severity="error"
          message="Octal literals are not allowed in strict mode."/>
      </file>
    </checkstyle>

See also: [Writing your own JSHint reporter](/docs/reporters/).

#### `--verbose`

Adds message codes to the JSHint output.

#### `--show-non-errors`

Shows additional data generated by JSHint.

    $ jshint --show-non-errors myfile.js
    myfile.js: line 10, col 39, Octal literals are not allowed in strict mode.

    1 error

    myfile.js:
      Unused variables:
        foo, bar

#### `--extra-ext`

Allows you to specify additional file extensions to check (default is .js).

#### `--extract=[auto|always|never]`

Tells JSHint to extract JavaScript from HTML files before linting:

    tmp ☭ cat test.html
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Hello, World!</title>
        <script>
          function hello() {
            return "Hello, World!";
          }
        </script>
      </head>
      <body>
        <h1>Hello, World!</h1>
        <script>
          console.log(hello())
        </script>
      </body>
    </html>

    tmp ☭ jshint --extract=auto test.html
    test.html: line 13, col 27, Missing semicolon.

    1 error

If you set it to *always* JSHint will always attempt to extract JavaScript.
And if you set it to *auto* it will make an attempt only if file looks
like it's an HTML file.

#### `--exclude`

Allows you to specify directories which you DON'T want to be linted.


#### `--exclude-path`

Allows you to provide your own .jshintignore file. For example, you can point
JSHint to your .gitignore file and use it instead of default .jshintignore.

#### `--prereq`

Allows you to specify prerequisite files i.e. files which include definitions
of global variables used throughout your project.

#### `--help`

Shows a nice little help message similar to what you're reading right now.

#### `--version`

Shows the installed version of JSHint.
